Okay, so now we're going to practice
VPC flow logs.
And to do so well, we'll go into our demo VPC
under Flow Logs and we can create a flow log.
So we have a few types of flow logs.
So I'll call this one DemoS3FlowLog.
And we have a filter, do we want the accept type,
reject type or all kind of traffic?
So if you're trying to debug why some traffic
is not going through, maybe reject is more relevant.
Otherwise, all or accept are good as well.
The maximum aggregation interval.
So how long you need to wait to aggregate.
And you can look at the info.
So you can optionally specify a one minute aggregation,
but if you do so
then there's gonna be more records being created,
because it's possible that you have lots of records
getting created over time
and obviously every one minute written to
S3 or CloudWatch Logs can be very expensive.
So let's just do one minute
just for the sake of the demo to go quicker.
But 10 minutes is usually a better option
if you're looking at it, especially
after a little bit of time.
So a few options.
We can send the destination to CloudWatch Logs
And we need to specify a log group,
we need to we can also send it to an Amazon S3 bucket.
We need to specify the S3 bucket ARN
or we can send it to Kinesis Data Firehose
in the same account or in a different account.
But we'll use Amazon S3.
So to do so,
I'm going to go into the S3 service in here
and I will create a bucket and create
demo-stephane-vpc-flow-logs-v2, okay?
In the same region where my VPC is obviously.
And then I will create this bucket.
Now view the details of the bucket
and now we need to get the bucket ARN.
So to do so, here it is
I can just copy it from the Properties.
So let's paste this in.
And as we can see, a resource-based policy
will be created for you and attached to the target bucket.
So bucket policy will be created for us automatically
so that the VPC service can send data into our S3 buckets.
Now the format looks like this.
This is the default format of AWS.
And next I will click on Create Flow Log.
Okay, so this first flow log has been created, perfect.
And I will go ahead and create a second flow log now.
So I'll create flow log.
And this one is going to be DemoFlowLog CloudWatch Logs
all kind of traffic,
one minute interval,
to CloudWatch logs.
And we need to create a log group and an IAM role.
Okay, so let's do both of these things.
So to do so when you click on Set Up Permissions
so let's create a role.
So we are going to create a role
this is a custom trust policy.
And in here for principle, just go to the new line.
You're going to enter Service in between quotes, then colon
and then Service
is vpc-flow-logs.amazonaws.com.
So make sure you have this in between quotes as well.
So this is going to say
that this role can be assumed by VPC flow logs.
Click on Next.
Now for permissions policy
we need CloudWatch Logs full access.
So we're going to have this one CloudWatch Log full access
which is enough.
Then click on Next.
And this role name is going to be flowlogsrole.
Then create this role.
And now this role is created.
So if I refresh this
and look for flow log roles, here we go.
It is created.
And now we need a log group.
So let's go into the CloudWatch Logs console.
So let's click on it here.
And under Logs, Log Groups, I'm going to create a log group.
I'll call it VPCFlowLogs.
And I will set the retention to one day
and click on Create, click on this log group here.
Now refresh this and the VPCFlowLogs is appearing.
So we're good to go.
Now let's create this flow log.
And yet again, so now we have two flow logs.
One flowing into Amazon S3
and one flowing into CloudWatch Logs.
So into Amazon S3 under my Objects, I can refresh this
and as we can see some AWSLogs have already been created.
I can click on it,
look at the VPC flow logs for eu-central-1.
And then we have a timestamp,
and we have here the VPC flow logs available to us.
So now let's go into the CloudWatch Logs
and refresh this and have two log streams.
And these log streams correspond
to the enis within my accounts.
So if we ever a look at the eni of my BastionHost, this one,
and we have a look at the eni number.
So we go under Networking, and what I'm going to do
is put this up a little bit and look for the eni id.
So the eni id is 0835.
So let's go into here and look for 0835, this one, perfect.
So this is showing us the kind of traffic that is happening
onto my EC2 instance.
And if you look at it, well, it seems that some people
are trying to access my EC2 instance,
but it's getting rejected.
So this is the version, this is like all these fields,
okay the eni id and this IP address,
which is the public IP address
is trying to access my EC2 instance.
And this is really like this kind of attackers
were attacking your instance and just scanning the web
for holes and so on.
So you're gonna have a lot of this kind of traffic.
And if I wanted to get some defense,
I could for example, if this IP address
was annoying me too much,
I could block it at the that code level, for example
and not have this traffic.
But as we can see, a lot of traffic is appearing in here
and it's all Reject.
But if I were to do some activity on my S3 instance
and connect to Google for example,
we would see some traffic with Accept as well.
And the same kind of data is going to appear on Amazon S3.
So if I go here, you will have a lot of data, okay?
So you use CloudWatch Logs, if you want to have
some kind of metrics filter
to do some real-time analysis in case you're being attacked
and a lot of traffic is being rejected and so on.
So this is very helpful and you'll use Amazon S3
if you wanted to do some more bigger analysis
for example, using Athena.
So let's go ahead and practice using Athena
to query this data into my S3 bucket.
So in Athena, what I'm going to do is to first set up
a query result location in Amazon S3.
So I'm going to click on New Settings, Manage
and then I need to specify an S3 bucket
where I'm going to store my results.
So back into Amazon S3
what I'm going to do is just quickly create an S3 bucket,
because this wasn't set up for this account.
So I call this one demo-athena-stephane-v2,
and this should work.
Now let's click on Create these buckets, View Details,
and I can just use this S3 bucket,
so Properties, I will copy the ARN,
back into Athena and then click on Save.
So I need to just do slash and then Athena.
And then something like, ah, S3://, here we go.
Okay, this is good.
So let's click on Save.
And now we have this query location being saved
and I need to go ahead
and start creating a database and then create some data.
So what I need to do is to go in here
and I will type AWS VPC flow logs Athena
and this is going to take me
into a tutorial on how to do it.
So to do so, we need to create a table.
And this whole statement right here shows you how.
So let's go ahead and paste this in my Athena UI.
So here we go.
And we need to specify where the data is.
So the log bucket, the prefixed logs
and then account id VBC flow logs and region code.
So let's find it.
So let's go back in here.
This is my Athena bucket.
No, this is my VPC flow logs bucket.
Here we go.
So let's go to the top of it.
Just to go back.
So logs, account id, VPC flow logs, region.
Okay, we got it.
Now we're going to copy this S3 URI directly
back into Athena and I'm going to paste this in.
Okay, perfect.
And let's run this statement.
So this completed, and now we have a VPC flow log
table in here.
Okay, and it is partitioned.
So we can see we have all the information in here.
Now the second thing we need to do
is to run another statement.
So let's go here and find this alter table,
to create partitions to read this data.
So let's copy this, paste this in.
And again, we need to specify a date
and as well as the entire replacement
for month, year, and day.
Okay, so let's go ahead and do this.
So back into Amazon S3, into my Objects
I will click, click and click, go back to Properties
and paste this, copy and paste this in.
So we're good to go.
And then we need to add a partition.
So 2021-10-06.
And this is quite manual,
but Glue can help with automating this.
Now let's run this statement.
And the statement was successfully completed.
So now we have added one partition into our table.
And then finally we can query the flow logs
just by doing a select.
So let's do this to find all the reject traffic
and then click on Run.
And this is worked.
And now we have 46 results and we can have a look.
So day, date, interface id, source address,
action reject, protocol 6.
So we can get a lot of information from Athena
and we can start doing some complex queries
to try to group for example, by IP addresses,
see who is attacking us the most
where we're attacked the most, and so on.
So this could be quite helpful
for doing some batch analysis, okay?
But that's it, we've seen how to set VPC flow logs.
We send to CloudWatch Logs.
And to Amazon S3, we've used Athena to query these logs
in Amazon S3.
So very complete demo.
And what I'm going to do now is just disable all these logs.
I'm going to delete them, just not to run any ongoing cost.
Okay, so that's it.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.